I was actually a part of the health unit
I was part of like a youth group and we
were doing like smoking and met like
mental health stuff and um I see a lot
of people may try to blame they tried to
blame everybody and our point for the
smoking thing was to blame the company's
not the people like you can't attack
people and expect them to change you
have to like change the company's not
that it's really hard to explain yeah I
understand going but um I'm not exactly
how to like be an activist for veganism
like there's so many different
approaches and I'm like I don't know
what to do yo it's in the country and
there's not much stuff we can do I don't
know yeah well look I mean um I think
the the big question that I I kind of
want to talk about more on my youtube
channel because it's boring but it's
really important has to do with your
commitment to the place you know I you
know I've made comparisons between
veganism and smoking all the time but
the other kind of comparison have made
since the start of my channel is talking
about vegan politics as opposed to going
to City Hall you know being involved
with activism on local issues that way
uh in some ways being in a small town is
an advantage in that you can build up
the trust of people and contacts with
people locally but the choice of where
you are and whether or not you're really
committed to that places is fundamental
in terms of my own political development
I went through a long series of stages
before I really embraced what I would
just call pragmatic politics where I
really made the decision in my life look
what matters to me is whether or not the
drinking water is poisoned is whether or
not you know like so Toronto was on a
lake all right and at that time this may
have changed but I doubt it you could
look at a map and be like here is the
tunnel that puts sewage into the lake
and here is the tunnel that takes in
drinking water for the city and they
were so close together what the city did
was they be
ult and they extended there was a little
like brick wall underwater it doesn't
even go to the service there's like a
little wall underwater to try to make
the poo go off in one direction and the
drinking water come in and other day
she's like if you do not need an
advanced degree in biochemistry to see
what the problem is anyone could look at
that map and see the reality that oh
another thing I'll just mention that's
interesting in terms of like the larger
scale of ecologic Toronto is built on a
tiny tiny river now the Don River that
that's just a trickle there's like
nothing there there's a small park there
and so on a river that was destroyed
ecologically when Toronto was founded
that river was big enough to have
steamboats going up it so like
old-fashioned southern American South
steamboats would carry people up this
river basically the whole length of the
city the city is this now from the from
the lakefront up the reason why the the
water level dropped so dramatically was
deforestation when you cut down the
trees you cut out the hydrological cycle
you reduce the amount of water being
pumped through the ecosystem to simplify
slightly and river levels drop so in
Toronto nobody perceives these problems
they're invisible although they're right
in front of your face like people cross
over that river on a bridge they drive
their cars over the river they don't see
an ecological history they don't see the
devastation that's implicit in right
people drink water out of their tap
every day really in 5 seconds they could
look at a map and see that problem so
that for me this is before i became
vegan back then i was strictly
vegetarian i made a video tide I'd
really never even heard the word vegan
but I was I was pretty close to vegan in
terms of what I believed in I was I was
already very close to vegan and I refuse
to wear leather and stuff like that um
but you know for me it was really a
turning point my life was like okay I
want to deal with real politics and I
admit it's a completely subjective
definition like what is real and then
what is real politics it's completely
it's not objective it's subjective but
to me I decided look there's all this
kind of BS going on
with you know people holding signs in
the streets and protesting and in
Toronto there's a lot of very far left
politics extreme communism that sort of
thing and people wanting to have
opinions on issues they can't influence
so like an issue an example this is
probably even true at your college
probably even as Sheridan College there
will be people protesting human rights
in Israel which is understandable but if
you live in southern Ontario you cannot
make an impact on human rights in Israel
yeah no no but I just mentioned so like
on many university campuses that is
something gets protested like on campus
as if it's something your professors can
change you know but these kinds of
issues like you know the water and the
deforestation and pollution and city you
know city ordinances city plan city
political changes those were things I
really could impact and influence and to
me that seemed like something that was
completely morally positive for me to do
with my time as opposed to what was
going on again on basically in left-wing
politics in Canada I I didn't have any
contact with right wing right wing
politics like right-wing politics also
exists but I mean I I don't I'd never
even met those people it's just downtown
Toronto I didn't see it obviously like I
think the majority of people in Toronto
vote for the Conservative Party so it
exists but it may be oh I just say this
not wasn't wasn't really part of my life
there was no temptation for me to join
the Conservatives me yeah maybe things
would have turned out better for me at
it haha but look what you are yeah well
I don't fit in in Canada there's no
place from here and you know i'm going
back to china in a few weeks so we'll
see how that works out um they will come
back to what to what i am if you want a
second but look this is this is me
giving you the advice about you and
activism in a small town of the material
I there is no way i could tell you that
the town you're born in or the town your
parents own a house answer you may be
more nel so does matter but there's no
reason why the town you're living in
would be the right town for you and in a
lot of ways Toronto was the wrong city
for me like in a lot of ways it's the
wrong place for me to make that
commitment but I think any kind of
meaningful activism it's
very humbling to recognize it does
require that type of commitment to say
I'm committed to this place at this time
like for whether it's 10 years 20 years
or what and this also reflects why
religious organizations have a huge
advantage over like vegan organizations
or just left-wing organizations the fact
that a church owns property it owns a
building there's a church and a church
basement and people meet there and play
the guitar I'm not religious at all as
you may have guessed but we're saying
the churches of a huge advantage of that
and you can go to that church and you
can do fundraising where you say look
we're really concerned about the
drinking water we'll just stick with the
same example and you know here's the map
here's where the sewage goes in here is
where drink water comes from this is
really a problem we're concerned about
and the city government is doing this
and maybe at that church maybe there is
50 people who are sympathetic willing to
listen you may not even need their money
you know you may actually need their
signatures some some things and
democratic process you need 50 people to
sign a piece of paper but maybe they
each give you ten dollars you know can
make can make a really big difference
and then to be building that kind of
trust with people face-to-face in one
place at one time that's why
historically churches that this huge
advantage and vegans by and large we've
started with that kind of infrastructure
with other kind of support so I see one
speaks I'll just finish the sense that
is also when vegans make the comparison
to martin luther king jr dr martin
luther king jr. you have to give his
full name they always skip the religious
component the reality is the political
power martin luther king jr. had was
built on christianity was built on
christian churches was built on the fact
that he could go from town to town
speaking at churches and each one of
those churches had deep grassroots
support from people who knew each other
face-to-face who trusted each other they
had the potential to make a political
difference already before he got there
and of course he had his own church he
had his own ministry he had his own
status in that so again when people say
the oval look at Martin Luther King jr.
ok we'll really look I don't I don't
have any of those advantages I'm a guy
on YouTube
I mean and and that is the in some ways
I love it like in some ways I love the
fact that anyone can watch my youtube
channel and get interested and get
motivated and in theory can make a
difference in the world but i'm also
really aware of the disadvantages that
I've got and that and that collectively
we've got so but but the implicit point
that I was saying is there's no way i
can tell you you're living in the right
town it may be the wrong place to maybe
you decide like one year from now or
whatever that you hate the town you're
living in and you're going to move to
Montreal or you're going to move to to
Beijing like could be or or Florida you
decide Sarasota Florida is where you
want to sit down roots but I think the
point is if you want to move somewhere
else even if it's just Montreal the
decision not to be there as a tourist
the decision to say no no these are my
people this is my problem this is my
responsibility I'm not just here for fun
or not just here to make money I'm you
know I'm going to set down roots that
even if it's completely invisible that's
a big change that's a big difference
that's different from just being there
because all these people go to Thailand
I was talking to vegans who went to
Thailand and they were really being
sincere with me they didn't think there
was any poverty they didn't think there
was any prostitution they didn't think
any of these social problems existed
there they're seeing it I'm I can't
explain it they're seeing it just as
tourists but obviously it's possible to
go to Montreal or go to Toronto stay
with Toronto it's possible to go to
Toronto and not see any problems
definitely you go to Toronto when you
don't see where the drinking water comes
from right and you don't see the
deforestation in the destruction that
river there can be very obvious problems
when I was there Toronto actually was
running out of drinking water it's not
worth explaining why it's for technical
reasons even though Lake Ontario is
really big you can still rendering water
when i was there Toronto had literally
run out of places to put its garbage and
we're wasting millions of dollars
sending it on trucks to the United
States and a huge distance of the border
was a catastrophe financially as well as
psychologically basically due to
government and competence obviously as a
tourist you don't see any of that but if
you're there and you care just a little
bit you see all of it and I think I
obviously I would give this advice to
someone who is non vegan but I think
it's even more important for vegans
because vegans may think about these
issues in an abstract way like it's only
about the whole world like it's about
air pollution on a global scale and my
perspective is no it never is it's
always about your town your five friends
your 10 people again it would be your
church group if you've got a church
group I don't it's on that level of
local local unit organization you know
that's that's where the struggle gets
fought and that's where you figure out
you know if you can live a meaningful
life or not and if you can't I don't
know you got to move to Montreal
whatever